# Lead-Scoring-Case-Study
Problem Statement: An education company named X Education sells online courses to industry professionals. On any given day, many professionals who are interested in the courses land on their website and browse for courses. The company markets its courses on several websites and search engines like Google. Once these people land on the website, they might browse the courses or fill up a form for the course or watch some videos. When these people fill up a form providing their email address or phone number, they are classified to be a lead. Moreover, the company also gets leads through past referrals. Once these leads are acquired, employees from the sales team start making calls, writing emails, etc. Through this process, some of the leads get converted while most do not. The typical lead conversion rate at X education is around 30%.    
Business Goal: Now, although X Education gets a lot of leads, its lead conversion rate is very poor. For example, if, say, they acquire 100 leads in a day, only about 30 of them are converted. To make this process more efficient, the company wishes to identify the most potential leads, also known as ‘Hot Leads’. If they successfully identify this set of leads, the lead conversion rate should go up as the sales team will now be focusing more on communicating with the potential leads rather than making calls to everyone. The company requires to build a model wherein they need to assign a lead score to each of the leads such that the customers with a higher lead score have a higher conversion chance and the customers with a lower lead score have a lower conversion chance. The CEO, in particular, has given a ballpark of the target lead conversion rate to be around 80%.     
Conclusion: The variables that can be considered are : Do Not Email,  Total Time Spent on Website, Lead Source_Olark Chat, Lead Source_Others, Lead Source_Reference, Lead Source_Welingak Website, Last Activity_Email Opened, Last Activity_Olark Chat Conversation, Last Activity_Others, Last Activity_SMS Sent, Specialization_Hospitality Management, Specialization_Others, Current_occupation_Other, Current_occupation_Student, Current_occupation_Unemployed
Leads with score of more than 28 have more than 87% chances of conversion and can be targeted by the X Education. Anyone having a score of >= 28 can be considered a Hot Lead.
Evaluation of our final model at our final cutoff of 0.345 on test set:  Accuracy: 80.05%, Sensitivity/Recall: 79.73% = 80%, Specificity: 81%,  Precision: 73.3%
